           First Presbyterian Church of Waterloo
     Session Meeting /Memorial Lounge
February 27, 2017 at 6:00PM
Present:  Rev. Sarah West-Moderator, Sadie Williams, Kerri Allen, Len Zwick, Ruth Marshall, Ruth Eads, Al Woodward, Beverly Schwarze, Phyllis Randall-Clerk/member. 
Excused:  Jared Marshall
Rev. Sarah opened with prayer.  Agenda was approved.  Len Zwick moved to approve the January Session minutes, Ruth Marshall seconded and motion carried.  Al Woodward moved to approve the minutes from the 199th Annual meeting as corrected.  Motion carried.
Clerk’s Report:  Communion was held February 5th.  We had two requests for building use right after our last meeting.  Using email, Session approved the building use for a Cornell Cooperative Extension 4H function March 12th.  Also approved was building use for the National Day of Prayer May 4th at 6:30PM.  Phyllis gave a review on the information required for the Statistical Report filed annually.   
Pastors Report: Rev. Sarah visited Ralph and Jean Poormon, Ruth and Jerry Marshall in their homes, Stephen King in the Nursing Home, Bob Didsbury in the hospital and provided pastoral care by phone.  She attended Presbytery meeting in Bellona (1/28), the Finance and Worship committee meetings and chaired the Capital Campaign and the Harmony Food Pantry meetings.  Rev. Sarah has been involved in the ongoing planning for Service Flag Service, planning music with Ruth for worship and a Session retreat as well as meeting with Gridley Inn to arrange retreat location.  Rev. Sarah officiated a Memorial Service for Nancy Cox, moderated the Annual Meeting, conducted Installation and Ordination of Elders and Deacons (2/19), attended a Friday Lunch and the Bible study.        
Session discussed the committees and organized the committees as follows: *Finance: Chair-James Randall, Session liaison will be Ruth Eads, *Stewardship: will be co-chaired by Ruth Marshall and Sadie Williams, *Worship: Chair will be Al Woodward, *Hospitality: Chair will be Kerri Allen, *Property: Chair will be James Randall, Session Liaison will be Phyllis Randall, *Human Resources: will be co-chaired by Jared Marshall and Len Zwick *Christian Ed.: Chair will be Helen Wadsworth, Session liaison will be Beverly Schwarze, *Capital Campaign: Chair will be Rev. Sarah, *Presbytery: Representative will be Ruth Eads and alternate will be Ruth Marshall, *Nominating- chair will be Kerri Allen. 
Al Woodward moved to approve George Poormon as Financial Secretary, Judy Brignall as Alternate Financial Secretary, Ruth Eads as Treasurer and Phyllis Randall as Clerk of Session. Len Zwick seconded and motion carried.
Human Resources:  No report.
Finance:  The Session reviewed Treasurer Ruth Eads’s report for January.   Account balance January 1st was $8,372.18, income for January was $9,823.62 and expenses were $12,307.33 leaving a balance January 31th of $5,889.10.  Kerri Allen moved to accept the Treasurer’s Report, Beverly Schwarze seconded, motion carried.  
Stewardship:  Ruth Marshall reported she would plan a meeting soon to plan the Moments for Mission for the year.
Worship:  Al Woodward moved to approve the Baptism of Lena Marshall on March 19th.  Len Zwick seconded and the motion carried.  Al also advised that we would be moving worship back to the Sanctuary March 19th. 
Hospitality: No report
Property:  Seneca Co. conducted their annual inspection, we passed but have not as yet received our report.
Nominating: No Report
Christian Ed:  No Report. 
Capital Campaign:  Rev. Sarah reported the committee is looking into the feasibility of overhead street banner for the 200th anniversary. 
Presbytery:  
Old Business:   NA
New Business:  Al Woodward moved to approve a fund raiser Yard Sale/Bake Sale/BBQ on April 22nd.  Ruth Marshall seconded and motion carried.  
After discussion Al Woodward moved to approve Camp Whitman scholarships of $200.00 per overnight camper and $75.00 per day camper, $1000.00 of money to come from Memorial fund. 
Ruth Marshall moved to approve the application of grant money, $2000.00 for Safe Harbors (our cost $666.00) and $2000.00 for House of Concern (no cost to us).  Sadie Williams seconded and motion carried.   
Phyllis Randall will secure Lay Readers for April
The next Session meeting will be March 20th at 6 PM 
Ruth Eads will close the March meeting. 
Kerri Allen closed the meeting with prayer.
Respectively Submitted,   

Phyllis Randall





  

